Changelog entry: static file service navigation and visibility (#2592)
FlowFuse/website: src/changelog/2024/08/static-file-service-navigation-visibility.md

---
title: Static File Service Navigation and Visibility
description: Navigate static files with better navigation and visibility selector
date: 2024-09-19 13:00:00.0
authors: ["serban-costin"]
tags:
    - changelog
---

> Users of FlowFuse Cloud and self-hosted enterprise users can now make use of an enhanced navigation tool and visibility selector when using the static file service feature.
> 
> Starting with the v2.9.0 release self-hosted enterprise and FlowFuse Cloud Team tier users have the ability to set the visibility of their static files through a new navigation tool.
> 
> This update means that users can set the visibility of their uploaded files to public and make them accessible outside the node-red instance itself.
> 
> This capability enhances the current static file service which only made uploaded files accessible to the node-red instance 
> itself while also allowing users to set a static path map on which the node-red instance will expose the files. 
> 
> Considerations:
> - Visibility and static path maps can be set on folders only.
> - Any change in visibility settings require an instance restart in order for the changes to take effect.
> - URL's and file paths are copiable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users of FlowFuse Cloud can now make use of an enhanced navigation tool and visibility selector when using the [static file service feature](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/08/flowfuse-2-8-release/#static-assets-service).

By settings the visibility of a folder to 'public', their Node-RED instance will automatically make any files in that folder publicly available - on a path of the user's choosing.

This makes it very simple to serve up additional assets such as images or libraries that can be used in your Node-RED Dashboards.

The visibility settings apply to the folder; you cannot make individual files public. Any changes to the visibility settings will require the instance to be restarted for the changes to take effect.
```

Reviewer: Slight rewording to add a bit more on what this enables for the user.

Author: thank you!
